From: João Henrique Freitas <joaohf <at> gmail.com>
Subject: Re:_catalog_backend_to_IBM_DB2
Newsgroups: gmane.comp.sysutils.backup.bacula.devel
Date: 2007-11-30 18:19:17 GMT (17 weeks, 1 day, 8 hours and 49 minutes ago)
Hello,

First, sorry for the long time without reply.

I don't forgot this ideas. But now I have time to spend it and learn more about
Bacula devel.

About one week back, I started some experiences about DB2 API and C/C++. Read
the src/cats/cats.h, src/cats/postgresql.c and various related files. I
understood what I need to do and how to do it.

Ah, I convert the SQL script to DB2 too.

About license GPL and DB2:

IBM DB2 is a proprietary product and Bacula is free software how they can stay
togethers? I will use API DB2 (CLI ODBC). In DB2 license, there not have any
limit about developer and distributed the work.

For example, if I compiling bacula with DB2, I will has DB2 client and
developers files installed. Or, if I distribute a rpm package of Bacula
(previous compiling with DB2 support) the server need have a DB2 client
installed.


What I want say is: I can developing with DB2 API and distribute my work with
GPL license and this work use a proprietary API to connect a DB2 database
server. Somebody has experience about this situation between interaction GPL
and proprietary APIs ?

My intend is to only develop the backend to DB2 on Bacula and source code (GPL)
necessary to it.

Follow a text found in DB2 License IBM Data Server Driver for ODBC and CLI

Redistribution Information

If You have developed an application that is dependent upon the files or
modules listed below or located in the directory named below, You may
distribute these files or modules, subject to the following terms:
1) The files or modules must be in object code.
2) You will indemnify IBM or third parties that provide IBM products ("Third
Parties") from and against any third party claim arising out of the use or
distribution of Your application.
3) You may not use the same path name as the original files/modules.
4) You may not use IBM's or Third Parties' names or trademarks in connection
with the marketing of Your applications without IBM's or Third Parties' prior
written consent.
5) IBM or Third Parties provide copies of these files or modules "AS IS," i.e.,
You are responsible for all technical assistance for Your application.
6) In Your license agreement with the recipient, You will notify the recipient
that these files or modules may not be 1) used for any purpose other than to
enable the application, 2) copied (except for backup purposes), 3) further
distributed, or 4) reverse assembled, reverse compiled, or otherwise
translated.

Unix/Linux:
db2trc
db2ldcfg
db2lddrg
db2level
db2cli.ini
08501252.cnv
12520850.cnv
IBM00850.ucs
IBM01252.ucs
ReadMe.txt
libicclib.so
libcrypto.so.0.9.7
db2admh.mo
db2adm.mo
db2clia1.lst
db2clias.lst
db2clih.mo
db2cli.mo
db2clit.mo
db2clp.mo
db2diag.mo
db2sqlh.mo
db2sql.mo
libdb2.a
libdb2.sl
libdb2.so
libdb2.so.1
IBMOSauthclient.a
IBMOSauthclient.sl
IBMOSauthclient.so
IBMOSauthclient.so.1



On Sep 6, 2007 10:59 AM, David Boyes <dboyes_<at>_sinenomine.net> wrote:
     > > The motivation for the choice of IBM DB2 is not very especial. I
     need
     > > learning DB2 and currently work with it.
     > >
     > > So, before I spend more energy, what ours opinions about this?

     Great idea. There is a lot of interest in DB/2 in the commercial
     world,
     especially if you assume and test with z/OS DB/2 as the backend
     database. The combination of Bacula on Linux for Z and the DB/2 on z/
     OS
     is a very compelling argument for enterprise deployment.

     If you don't have a z/OS system handy, talk to me offlist and I can
     put
     you in touch with some people at IBM who can make development
     resources
     available. Failing that, UDB on Linux for Z would be a good choice,
     and
     there is a UDB Community Edition release for that platform (as well
     as
     Intel and POWER).

     > - read and understand the code of the different catalog backends.
     > - start with one of the existing catalog backends - SQLite, MySQL,
     > PostgreSQL - and start migrating it to DB2 SQL.

     I did a little bit of looking at this a while back. Pay very close
     attention to the Postgres back end; Postgres is very similar in
     behavior
     and manner to DB/2 (both are picky about standards compliance, and
     have
     a lot of the same quirks).

     I have a lot of DB/2 types around here; I can probably help you with
     queries.


     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     ----
